In the last video, I looked at terminal operations that answered questions about the data in a stream
or pipeline in this video, the question I want to ask the data requires first that the data be looked
at as an entire set.
No Short-circuiting can occur here to return a result.
If you try to execute these operations on an infinite stream without first limiting it in some way,
you may be creating a non terminating situation.
The terminal operations I'll be discussing in this video are listed in the table, on screen and a known
as reduction operations, they return SWAT Valley by combining or aggregating the elements of a stream
in some way.
An important note, the Max Min and the single argument reduce Method's return, an optional and therefore
cannot be directly assigned to a primitive data local variable.
So let's look at some of these methods.
The first method signature is count, which returns long.
That returns the count of elements in the stream.
The next one we've got there is Max, which returns an optional type T.
You can say it's got a parameter of comparator using a wild card that's lower bound.
This returns the maximum element of this stream, according to the provided comparator.
This is a special case of a reduction.
Next, we've got Minne, which also returns an optional type T.
It also has passed a parameter.
Comparator is using a wildcard lower bound T returns the minimum element of this stream, according
to the provided comparator.
And this is also a special case of a reduction.
Next, we have ridges, which also returns optional of type T, it accepts a binary operator of type
T and performs a reduction on the elements of the stream using an associative accumulation function
and returns an optional describing the reduced value, if any.
Next, we have Ridges, which returns a type T excepting two parameters, the first of type T, the
second a binary operator of type T, it is performs a reduction on the elements of the stream using
the provided identity value and an associated accumulation function and returns the reduced value and
the last one is reduced, which is overloaded there.
You could say that the parameters are a type.
You both have a function of top.
You add a wildcard lower bound T and you have also got a binary operator of top upswell and it returns
a top you.
So it performs a reduction on the elements of this stream using the provided identity accumulation and
combining functions.
Well, let's swing back to our idea.
We need to create a new class in our Stream Operations project.
We're going to call this one stream simple reductions stream, simple reductions, the code in case
there's the code.
So this code consists of a main method that does the following in a for loop.
So you can see a for loop there.
Well, before that, you can see on line 17, I've created a local variable which will house a random
list of integer.
But in terms of the Falu, not that limit is a loop variable.
In addition to the iteration counter ie the limit variable will change the size of the list we create.
Our list is created using Random INTs, which was introduced in Java.
Right, and produces an end stream.
You remember hopefully that I transformed from a stream of int turn in stream in the video and streamed
stream map examples using a map to interpret it.
Here I'm doing the opposite.
I'm transforming it into stream to a stream of top integer using the strange box method and then using
collect using collectors to list to generate a list of integer from this stream.
Next, I'm taking the list created in creating three pipelines.
The first one is, is the count method which returns along.
The next one we're using is Max with a pass comparator which takes a comparator and returns an optional
of top long o use the static method here, comparator dot natural order for the comparator and the third
one using them in passing a comparative method which takes a comparator and returns an optional of type
long.
And I'm using a static method here.
Comparator to natural order as well for this comparator.
Scroll down.
So you've got some airport and we're altering the limit, but in terms of going through our loop, you
can see that I'm iterating five times and each time the limit of the list gets larger and the min max
values should get closer to the range of numbers used in the random method.
Again, you can see that we're multiplying it by 10 through each iteration.
So let's run this now.
So I could see the output on the screen there now.
Now, obviously your output will be different because of the randomise nature of their list and the
fact we can run it again and we'll see that we'll get different results.
There we go.
Well, so far, I think these methods are fairly straightforward, but let's go make one minor change
to the fallout.
We're going to go back up here and change.
The initial value of limit from one to zero do that.
Now, if we run this.
You see, suddenly we've got an era, no such Elliman exception, no valley present, you could say
that it's crashed a lot of 39 this year has occurred because the list is empty and therefore the stream
is empty.
And the result of Max is an empty, optional piece of get on an empty optional produces this era.
What's the next?
Let's make a few other changes.
What we want to do is change these two uses of get along.
Thirty nine and forty four, we're going to change this to all else and pass on an argument of minus
one side or else
on as one and would do the same down here.
Minus one.
So here's what I want to do is return minus one as the value, if the optional is now four million max,
if the list is empty, I talked about option one.
The use of or else in the video are options.
In addition, I want to make a change to line forty seven where I'm starting a value to limit.
So let's do that here.
But he's a ternary operator here, so you could say that I'm setting the limit to one if it's zero.
Otherwise, I'm setting it to limit multiplied by 10 NetWeaver on this card.
We've got the following output, which, again, will be different because of the randomise list when
you read it, so I should now be able to add some an average, correct.
But some on average are not terminal operations on stream.
They are, however, operations on stream, double stream and long stream.
So that's at some code now in the loop just before the end of the closing loop.
Right.
Calibration facility for Loop.
So just before the closing calibration, I'm going to paste in the code and there's the code.
So I'm transforming the stream to an end stream using map to it with a simple one to one function.
Then I call the average function, which uses optional.
And so I'm going to use or else passing minus one to that method as we did previously.
The sub method simply returns a double value.
The sum of nothing is zero.
So if we run this now.
So as you can see from the output, it's showing us the salmon averages of the lists.
And again, your numbers will be different.
Can you get us some without using its stream?
Let's answer that in the next video.